the European adventurers coming to the
new world called it the Fountain of
Youth a magical land lost in time full
of trees and birds never before seen and
crossed by a river whose water did not
come from the heavens and so pure was
its taste they believed it had
rejuvenating powers that land is
northern Florida and the river the Santa
Fe
the Santa Fe is unique in that the main
source of its water is underground
instead of above it it is fed by Springs
of which there are over 600 in this area
and some of those Springs are in their
own rights broad class dive sites let me
take you on a trip to the most unique
and fascinating underwater landscape
you'll ever see immediately it becomes
clear that Jeanie is no ordinary
freshwater type the clarity of the water
is amazing giving me an otherworldly
feeling of being suspended in air rather
than liquid I head out for my first time
a foreboding crack known as little devil
that scars the riverbed like the
grotesque mouth of a giant
and I can barely contain my excitement
as I plunge into the belly of the beast
you
after negotiating the tight passage I
arrived at the desolate bottom centuries
ago this crevice was a spring tool and
somewhere behind these rocks lie a
connection to deeper tunnels but that
opening has since collapsed and I am
able to continue no further
oh wow what a trilling da Gama's
I think I've been bitten by the
freshwater bug that I've heard so many
cave divers rave about and the fun has
just begun
next I swim towards the devil's eye
whose round entrance opens the way to
miles of submerged tunnels and caves
once I pass this narrow restriction I
find myself inside a small but beautiful
cavern an undeniable feeling of peace
and an absolute silence palpable all
around this cavern sits over an area of
low porosity where the water moves
through the rock
very slowly sometimes taking hundreds of
years to travel from the point where it
went underground to where it comes back
to the surface and like an old king
living in luxury I am now bathing in
their rare vintage
as I leave I realize I have never felt
this close to mother earth before what
an experience please join me for part
two as I continue Tech's